Using GUI Ripping for Automated Testing of Android Applications
D. Amalfitano, A. Fasolino, S. Carmine, A. Memon, and P. Tramontana. Using GUI ripping for automated testing of Android applications. In Proceedings of 27th Intl. Conf. on Automated Software Engineering (ASE), 2012.

As the utilization and demand for Android applications has increased rapidly since 2010, so has the need for a testing platform for Android applications increased. A team of professors from the Università Federico II Napoli and from the University of Maryland have collaborated to produce a tool, Android Ripper, that is able to test Android apps through their respective Graphical User Interface (GUI), emphasizing the ability to identify bugs commonly classified as Activity. 
 
Android Ripper is able to test the GUI by ripping, or reverse engineering, the app’s user interface and then executing a set of events, implemented as a list of tasks. As each task is fired, the state of the GUI is recorded and added to a growing GUI tree. The state may be failed or false if a bug is found and true if it executed in a manner which is expected. 
This tool design was modeled after and combines attributes of two approaches to Android GUI testing, using state machines to describe the GUI and using a tree model consisting of simulated user events. The Android Ripper can be manually tuned to better handle different GUIs and detect specific runtime crashes unique to the application. 

Android Ripper build upon previous work such as the Android Development Tool Monkey, which also use random discovery of Events in the application to identify novel test cases. Android Ripper makes improvements in automated detection of errors and in building a better internal model of the application. Android Ripper is able to identify a wider range of errors than previous algorithms. For instance, Monkey is unable to identify Activity errors.

Android Rippers effectiveness was proven through testing using a live open-source android application, called WordPress for Android. The Android Ripper tool was able to identify bugs and gather code coverage and other metrics about the sample application. Android Ripper was able to generate six to eight crashes identifying four bugs, while the Monkey application was only able to generate a three crashes identifying a single Bug. In addition Android Ripper shows 12% better line of code coverage with comparable runtimes. 